>> Stewart: ON THIS EDITION FOR
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 29: TEN DAYS
TO ELECTION DAY-- AS CLINTON AND
TRUMP BARNSTORM BATTLEGROUND
STATES, WILL THE LATEST F.B.I.
PROBE OF CLINTON'S E-MAILS
TIGHTEN THE RACE?
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
LURING MANUFACTURING JOBS BACK
TO THE UNITED STATES.
HOW WELL DO THEY PAY?
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
ALISON STEWART.
>> Stewart: GOOD EVENING, AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
HILLARY CLINTON'S CAMPAIGN IS
CALLING ON THE F.B.I. TO REVEAL
ALL IT KNOWS ABOUT A RECENTLY
DISCOVERED BATCH OF E-MAILS
RELATED TO THE ONCE-DORMANT
INVESTIGATION INTO CLINTON'S
PRIVATE E-MAIL SERVERS SHE USED
WHILE SECRETARY OF STATE.
CLINTON CAMPAIGN CHAIRMAN JOHN
PODESTA TOLD REPORTERS ON A
CONFERENCE CALL TODAY THE
LETTER FROM F.B.I. DIRECTOR
JAMES COMEY INFORMING CONGRESS
YESTERDAY OF THE E-MAILS WAS
"LONG ON INNUENDO AND SHORT ON
FACTS."
PODESTA AND CLINTON CAMPAIGN
MANAGER ROBBY MOOK SAY COMEY
OWES THE PUBLIC "THE FULL STORY"
BEFORE ELECTION DAY, AND THEY
WANT TO KNOW HOW MANY E-MAILS
ARE DUPLICATES FROM 30,000
REVIEWED IN THE CASE CLOSED IN
JULY.
>> Stewart: THE F.B.I. HAS
DISCOVERED THE E-MAILS WHILE
INVESTIGATING THE ESTRANGED
HUSBAND OF CLINTON AIDE HUMA
ABEDIN, FORMER CONGRESSMAN
ANTHONY WEINER, FOR ALLEGEDLY
TEXTING AN UNDERAGE WOMAN.
THE E-MAILS WERE ON A COMPUTER
USED AT HOME BY WEINER AND
ABEDIN.
MOOK SAYS ABEDIN COMPLETELY
AND VOLUNTARILY COOPERATED WITH
INVESTIGATORS.
HILLARY CLINTON TALKED TO
REPORTERS LAST NIGHT IN IOWA.
>> WE DON'T KNOW WHAT TO
BELIEVE, AND I'M SURE THERE WILL
BE EVEN MORE RUMORS.
THAT'S WHY IT IS INCUMBENT UPON
THE F.B.I. TO TELL US WHAT
THEY'RE TALKING ABOUT, JEFF,
BECAUSE RIGHT NOW YOUR GUESS IS
AS GOOD AS MINE, AND I DON'T
THINK THAT'S GOOD ENOUGH.
>> Stewart: CAMPAIGNING TODAY IN
THE DENVER SUBURBS, REPUBLICAN
NOMINEE DONALD TRUMP SAID THE
RENEWED F.B.I. ATTENTION IS
DESERVED.
>> HILLARY SET UP AN ILLEGAL
SERVER FOR THE OBVIOUS PURPOSE
OF SHIELDING HER CRIMINAL
CONDUCT FROM PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
AND EXPOSURE.
>> Stewart: IN JULY, F.B.I.
DIRECTOR COMEY SAID CLINTON HAD
SENT OR RECEIVED 110 E-MAILS
CONTAINING CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION ON HER PRIVATE
SERVERS AND CALLED HER CONDUCT
CARELESS BUT NOT CRIMINAL.
FOR MORE ON THE F.B.I.'S
EXTENDED INQUIRY INTO CLINTON
SERVER E-MAILS, I AM JOINED FROM
WASHINGTON BY ONE OF THE
REPORTERS FOLLOWING THE STORY,
"POLITICO" INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTER KEN VOGEL.
SO, KEN, THE "WASHINGTON POST"
AND THE "NEW YORK TIMES" REPORT
THAT SENIOR JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
OFFICIALS TOLD COMEY NOT TO DO
THIS.
"POLITICO" IS REPORTING THAT
PROSECUTORS... SOME ARE
"SHOCKED," IS THE WORD THAT'S
BEING USED.
CAN YOU FILL THIS IN FOR ME?
>> YEAH, SURE.
THERE'S A FEELING THAT COMEY
KIND OF PAINTED HIMSELF INTO A
CORNER A LITTLE BIT BY, IN JULY,
WHEN HE ANNOUNCED THAT THEY WERE
NOT BRINGING CHARGES, GOING INTO
GREAT DETAIL ABOUT THE
INVESTIGATION, ABOUT HIS
RATIONALE FOR NOT BRINGING
CHARGES.
THIS IN MANY WAYS FLIES IN THE
FACE OF TYPICAL F.B.I. PROCEDURE
WHERE YOU DON'T COMMENT ON AN
ONGOING INVESTIGATION, YOU
DON'T EVEN ACKNOWLEDGE THE
EXISTENCE OF AN INVESTIGATION.
IF THE EXISTENCE IS
INDEPENDENTLY CORROBORATED, YOU
DON'T COMMENT ON IT.
AND, YOU KNOW, THE CLINTON FOLKS
PRAISED HIM FOR COMING OUT AND
ANNOUNCING THAT HE WASN'T
PRESSING CHARGES.
BUT IN SO DOING, HE BASICALLY
SET THE STAGE FOR THIS TYPE OF
SCENARIO WHERE IF NEW
INFORMATION DID ARISE, THAT HE
WOULD FEEL OBLIGATED TO PRESENT
IT AT LEAST TO CONGRESS WHO, OF
COURSE, QUICKLY TURNED AROUND
AND LEAKED IT TO THE PUBLIC,
WITH THE IDEA BEING THAT IF HE
DIDN'T DO IT BEFORE THE
ELECTION, HE WOULD COME UNDER
CRITICISM FOR POTENTIALLY
REVEALING NEW INFORMATION AFTER
THE ELECTION.
IT WAS A LITTLE BIT OF "DAMNED
IF YOU DO, DAMNED IF YOU DON'T"
IN THIS CASE.
>> Stewart: I WANT TO FOCUS ON
THAT WORD "OBLIGATION" BECAUSE
THAT'S THE WORD THAT HE USED IN
AN INTERNAL MEMO TO THE F.B.I.
HE SAID, "GIVEN THAT WE DON'T
KNOW THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THIS
NEWLY DISCOVERED COLLECTION OF
E-MAILS, I DON'T WANT TO CREATE
A MISLEADING IMPRESSION."
HE SAID IT WAS HIS OBLIGATION TO
TELL CONGRESS ABOUT THESE
E-MAILS.
TWO QUESTIONS: ONE, WAS IT,
INDEED, AN OBLIGATION?
AND, TWO, DIDN'T HE CREATE A
MISLEADING IMPRESSION?
>> WELL, CERTAINLY THERE WAS NO
FORMAL OBLIGATION.
HE DID IN JULY, WHEN HE WAS
ASKED ABOUT THIS BY CONGRESS,
WHEN HE TESTIFIED BEFORE
CONGRESS, HE WAS ASKED
SPECIFICALLY WOULD HE REOPEN THE
INVESTIGATION OR LOOK INTO
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION IF IT
CAME FORWARD AFTER THEY DECIDED
NOT TO PRESS CHARGES?
HE SAID THAT HE WOULD LOOK INTO
IT.
SO, HERE WE ARE.
AS TO WHETHER IT CREATES A
MISLEADING IMPRESSION, CERTAINLY
THAT'S THE ARGUMENT AMONG THE
CLINTON FOLKS AND WITHOUT
KNOWING REALLY ANYTHING ABOUT
THESE E-MAILS.
>> Stewart: THERE'S ONE
PROSECUTOR IN NEW YORK WHO
DESCRIBED HIS ACTIONS AS
INAPPROPRIATE BECAUSE THESE ARE
E-MAILS THAT HAVEN'T EVEN BEEN
REVIEWED, CORRECT?
>> WELL, CERTAINLY, THERE ARE
PEOPLE IN THE F.B.I. NEW YORK
OFFICE WHO ARE PURSUING THE
INVESTIGATION INTO ANTHONY
WEINER WHO HAVE LOOKED AT THESE
INVESTIGATIONS... LOOKED AT
THESE E-MAILS, RATHER, AND AT
LEAST ON A CURSORY BASIS
DETERMINED THAT THEY COULD BE
PERTINENT.
THEY FLAGGED IT UP THE FOOD
CHAIN, AND DIRECTOR COMEY SAID
THAT HE WANTED TO SEEK ACCESS TO
THESE.
THAT MEANS GETS A SUBPOENA
BECAUSE THESE... THIS CASE, THIS
INVESTIGATION INTO THE CLINTON
E-MAILS AND THE HANDLING OF
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION IS, OF
COURSE, UNRELATED TO THIS
INVESTIGATION INTO ANTHONY
WEINER.
>> Stewart: LET ME ASK YOU
A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE CLINTON
CAMPAIGN'S REACTIONS.
PREVIOUSLY ABOUT THE E-MAILS,
THEY KIND OF HAD A WAIT-AND-SEE
TO SEE IF THIS SMOKE TURNED INTO
A FULL FLAME.
THEY CAME RIGHT BACK AT THIS
IMMEDIATELY IN A WAY WE HADN'T
SEEN IN... THROUGHOUT THE
CAMPAIGN, REALLY.
WHY DO YOU THINK THAT WAS?
>> WHAT MY SOURCES AROUND THE
CAMPAIGN TELL ME THAT THEY ARE
WORRIED ABOUT IS GIVE MOMENTUM
TO DONALD TRUMP AND ALLOW HIM
TO LEAN HEAVILY ON HIS VOTERS TO
TRY TO GET THEM OUT TO VOTE WITH
THIS IDEA THAT THE SYSTEM WAS
RIGGED OR THAT HILLARY CLINTON
IS CORRUPT, AND THEY'RE
CONCERNED THAT THIS GIVES HIM
THE AMMUNITION TO DO SO WITHOUT
ANY ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT
WHAT THESE E-MAILS SAY, THAT
THEY BELIEVE WILL EXONERATE HER
AND HUMA ABEDIN IN THIS CASE.
>> Stewart: WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?
DOES ANY OF THIS GET RESOLVED
BEFORE NOVEMBER 8?
>> DIRECTOR COMEY HAS CERTAINLY
CREATED A SITUATION WHERE IS
UNDER PRESSURE NOW.
HE'S SORT OF CREATED PRESSURE ON
HIMSELF TO RELEASE ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION.
THE CLINTON CAMPAIGN IS
PRESSURING HIM.
REPUBLICANS ARE PRESSURING HIM.
SO, I THINK WE HAVEN'T HEARD THE
LAST FROM HIM BEFORE THE
ELECTION.
BUT I DON'T THINK HE'LL COME OUT
WITH ANYTHING APPROXIMATING
ANY KIND OF FINDINGS IN THIS
INVESTIGATION.
>> Stewart: KEN VOGEL FROM
"POLITICO," THANKS FOR SHARING
YOUR REPORTING.
>> PLEASURE.
>> Stewart: WHEN GALLUP
POLLSTERS ASK VOTERS WHAT THEIR
TOP ISSUES ARE THIS ELECTION
SEASON, THE ANSWER?
THE ECONOMY AND JOBS.
WHILE UNEMPLOYMENT HAS
STABILIZED AT 5% DURING THE PAST
YEAR, MANY AMERICANS STILL LONG
FOR THE DAYS WHEN MANUFACTURING
JOBS WERE PLENTIFUL AND COULD
PROVIDE THE BASIS OF A SOLID
MIDDLE CLASS LIFE.
ONE STATE HELD UP AS A MODEL FOR
DEVELOPING NEW MANUFACTURING
JOBS IS SOUTH CAROLINA.
HOWEVER, THERE ARE CRITICS WHO
SAY THAT REPUTATION HAS COME AT
THE EXPENSE OF WORKERS.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT PATRICIA SABGA
TRAVELED TO THE PALMETTO STATE
TO REPORT ON THE ISSUES
SURROUNDING JOB CREATION AND JOB
QUALITY.
THIS REPORT IS PART OF "CHASING
THE DREAM," OUR SERIES ON
POVERTY AND ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY
IN AMERICA.
>> Reporter: THAT'S THE SOUND OF
MANUFACTURING JOBS ON THE WAY--
2,000 OF THEM EXPECTED WITHIN
TWO YEARS, WHEN THIS 500-ACRE
PLANT NEAR RIDGEVILLE, SOUTH
CAROLINA, STARTS ROLLING OUT
VEHICLES FOR SWEDISH AUTO GIANT
VOLVO.
>> THIS IS OUR VERY FIRST
FACTORY ON THE AMERICAN
CONTINENT.
SO, WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A FULL-
FLEDGED PLANT WHERE YOU CAN
BUILD CARS FROM SCRATCH,
BASICALLY.
>> Reporter: KATARINA FJORDING
IS THE COMPANY VICE PRESIDENT
OVERSEEING THE NEW FACILITY.
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND WAS GIVEN A
FIRST LOOK AT THE CONSTRUCTION
SITE, WHICH IS ALREADY BOOSTING
THE ECONOMY.
>> ANYWHERE WE CAN, WE USE
SERVICES AND COMPANIES THAT ARE
AS LOCAL AS POSSIBLE.
>> Reporter: WHEN THE FACTORY
OPENS IN 2018, THE PRODUCTION
LINE WILL BE FILLED WITH HIGH-
SKILLED WORKERS, MANY TRAINED AT
ONE OF SOUTH CAROLINA'S 16
TECHNICAL COLLEGES THROUGH THE
STATE-SPONSORED PROGRAM READY
SOUTH CAROLINA, OR READY S.C.
>> THE STATE HAS LINED UP
DIFFERENT WAYS OF SUPPORTING
THIS PROJECT AND BRINGING US
HERE.
AND ONE KEY FACTOR WAS READY
S.C., WHERE THEY ACTUALLY DO
PRE-HIRING, AND PRE... PRE-
STAGING, PRE-SCREENING AND PRE-
TRAINING.
>> Reporter: THE PROGRAM IS PART
OF THE STATE'S ECONOMIC REVIVAL
STRATEGY THAT'S LURED OTHER BIG
GLOBAL MANUFACTURERS LIKE
B.M.W., HONDA, MERCEDES AND
MICHELIN.
MANUFACTURERS ARE COVETED NOT
ONLY FOR THE JOBS THEY CREATE ON
THE FACTORY FLOOR.
THEY HAVE WHAT'S CALLED A
MULTIPLIER EFFECT, SPAWNING MORE
JOBS FROM PRODUCERS AND SERVICES
WHO WANT TO DO BUSINESS WITH
THE FACTORY AND ITS WORKERS.
AND ECONOMISTS ESTIMATE THAT ONE
AUTO JOB IN SOUTH CAROLINA
CREATES AS MANY AS FOUR IN TURN.
ONCE HEAVILY DEPENDENT ON
TEXTILES, SOUTH CAROLINA SAW ITS
TRADITIONAL MANUFACTURING BASE
DECIMATED BY AUTOMATION AND
GLOBALIZATION, FORCES THAT SINCE
1990 CAUSED ROUGHLY 150,000
FACTORY JOBS TO DISAPPEAR OR
MIGRATE TO COUNTRIES WHERE
WORKERS ARE TYPICALLY PAID FAR
LESS.
BUT SOUTH CAROLINA HAS BEEN
CLAWING BACK MANUFACTURING JOBS,
ADDING MORE THAN 30,000 OF THEM
SINCE THE GREAT RECESSION THANKS
TO A COMBINATION OF ECONOMIC
INCENTIVES, ROBUST SUPPLY
CHAINS AND TRADING
INFRASTRUCTURE.
THERE'S ALSO AN ABUNDANCE OF
CHEAP LABOR, DUE IN PART TO THE
LOWEST UNION MEMBERSHIP IN THE
COUNTRY.
>> 25 YEARS AGO, WE WERE WHAT I
CALL A "THREE T" STATE-- THAT'S
TEXTILES, TOBACCO AND TOURISM.
>> Reporter: BOBBY HITT IS SOUTH
CAROLINA'S COMMERCE SECRETARY.
>> NOW, WE'RE AN AEROSPACE AND
AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING STATE,
WHICH GIVES US A BROADER BASE
WITH THE BIG SUPPLY CHAINS AND
MORE SUCC... A MORE SUCCESSFUL
OPERATION, MANUFACTURING-WISE.
>> Reporter: U.S. AEROSPACE
BEHEMOTH BOEING STARTED
ASSEMBLING ITS 787 DREAMLINER IN
SOUTH CAROLINA FIVE YEARS AGO.
>> ABOUT 30 MILES OF WIRING IN
THAT AIRPLANE.
>> Reporter: JOAN ROBINSON BERRY
IS VICE PRESIDENT OF BOEING
SOUTH CAROLINA, WHICH CURRENTLY
EMPLOYS 7,500 FULL-TIME WORKERS
IN NORTH CHARLESTON.
>> THERE'S A LOT OF GOOD REASONS
FOR BEING HERE.
IT'S THAT ECOSYSTEM--
GOVERNMENT, COMMUNITY, SUPPLY
BASE.
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY, AN... A
SKILLED AND MOTIVATED WORKFORCE.
>> Reporter: BUT LABOR ORGANIZER
MIKE EVANS, WITH THE
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE
WORKERS, SAYS BOEING IS BUILDING
THAT INDUSTRY ON THE BACKS OF
NON-UNION WORKERS WHO ARE
GETTING A RAW DEAL COMPARED TO
WORKERS IN THE COMPANY'S
UNIONIZED FLAGSHIP PLANT IN
EVERETT, WASHINGTON.
WHAT KIND OF DEAL DOES A BOEING
WORKER IN SOUTH CAROLINA GET,
COMPARED TO THEIR UNIONIZED
COUNTERPARTS IN WASHINGTON
STATE?
>> THEIR COUNTERPARTS'
EXPERIENCE IS A LOT DIFFERENT.
HAVING A UNION CONTRACT, WAGES
AND BENEFITS ARE MUCH BETTER
THAN WHAT THEY'RE EXPERIENCING
HERE IN SOUTH CAROLINA.
>> Reporter: ACCORDING TO THE
UNION'S CALCULATIONS, AFTER SIX
YEARS ON THE JOB, ASSEMBLER
MECHANICS IN WASHINGTON STATE
MAKE ROUGHLY $39 AN HOUR WHILE
THEIR NON-UNIONIZED COUNTERPARTS
IN SOUTH CAROLINA MAKE AROUND
$23.
>> I DON'T KNOW THE FACTS ON
THAT, BUT HERE'S WHAT I DO KNOW
IS THAT BOTH THE UNION AND
BOEING EVALUATE PAY BASED ON
REGIONS AND MARKET.
>> WHAT THEY'LL TELL YOU IS THAT
IT'S ALL ABOUT THIS BEING SOUTH
CAROLINA, THE COST OF LIVING IS
CHEAPER AND SO FORTH.
BUT WE'VE DONE OUR RESEARCH ON
THAT, AND IT'S VERY MINIMAL.
>> Reporter: BOEING OPPOSES A
UNION FOR ITS SOUTH CAROLINA
WORKERS BECAUSE IT SAYS IT WILL
MAKE THE PLANT LESS NIMBLE AND
THEREFORE LESS COMPETITIVE.
>> BOEING HERE IN SOUTH CAROLINA
WOULD NOT BENEFIT FROM HAVING A
UNION ORGANIZED HERE.
THE ENTIRE STRATEGY AROUND
ADVANCED MANUFACTURING'S
CHANGING.
WE'RE BRINGING NEW AND
INNOVATIVE THINGS TOGETHER.
IT'S NOT THE SAME SKILL SET
EVERY DAY, AND THEN IT'S GOING
TO BE STATIC.
AND THAT'S KIND OF THE UNION
ENVIRONMENT.
>> Reporter: AND SOUTH CAROLINA
IS ATTRACTING INVESTMENT FROM
ALL OVER THE WORLD.
>> IN THE LAST EIGHT YEARS,
THERE'VE BEEN TEN AUTOMOBILE
PLANTS ANNOUNCED ON THIS
CONTINENT.
EIGHT OF THEM WENT TO MEXICO,
TWO OF THEM CAME TO SOUTH
CAROLINA.
THE WORLD IS LOOKING AT US IN
THE UNITED STATES IN A SLIGHTLY
DIFFERENT WAY.
I THINK THE ONES THAT WIN ARE
THE ONES THAT ARE FLEXIBLE, ONE
THAT UNDERSTAND WHAT A COMPANY
NEEDS.
>> Reporter: BUT LABOR ACTIVISTS
SAY SOUTH CAROLINA IS LOWERING
THE BAR NATIONWIDE.
>> I MOVED HERE IN 1996, AND ONE
OF THE FIRST ACTIVIST THINGS
THAT I DID WAS WE PROTESTED
OUTSIDE A CONVENTION.
>> Reporter: ERIN McKEE IS
PRESIDENT OF THE SOUTH CAROLINA
A.F.L.-C.I.O.
>> BACK IN 1996, THE SIGNS SAID,
"SOUTH CAROLINA: LAST STOP
BEFORE MEXICO."
>> Reporter: AND DO YOU THINK
THAT STILL HOLDS TRUE?
>> YES.
I THINK WE ARE THE RACE TO THE
BOTTOM.
>> HOW CAN WE BE RACING TO THE
BOTTOM WHEN OUR EMPLOYMENT IS
DOWN, OUR MANUFACTURING
INVOLVEMENT IS UP, OUR GROWTH
OVERALL IN OUR ECONOMY IS
STEAMING ALONG, AND WE'RE
ATTRACTING COMPANIES FROM ALL
OVER THE WORLD?
>> JUST BECAUSE JOBS ARE
CREATED-- UNLESS THEY'RE GOOD
JOBS WHERE PEOPLE CAN ACTUALLY
PAY THEIR BILLS AND NOT JUST
LIVE ON CREDIT, AND HAVE
RETIREMENT AND HEALTH INSURANCE,
AND CAN PLAN FOR THE FUTURE--
IT'S NOT REALLY A GOOD JOB.
>> Reporter: MANUFACTURING
CONJURES IMAGES OF THE GOLDEN
ERA OF AMERICA'S MIDDLE CLASS, A
TIME WHEN FACTORIES PROVIDED
BLUE COLLAR WORKERS WITH STEADY
JOBS THAT PAID SIGNIFICANTLY
HIGHER THAN THE U.S. AVERAGE.
AN AVERAGE MANUFACTURING WORKER
EARNED AROUND $21 AN HOUR IN
SEPTEMBER, $5 LESS THAN THE
AVERAGE FOR ALL WORKERS.
>> I PREVIOUSLY WORKED AT HONDA
SOUTH CAROLINA.
LIKE EVERY JOB, IT HAD ITS UPS
AND DOWNS.
>> Reporter: THE DOWNSIDE FOR
DOMINICK WHITE WAS WORKING
BETWEEN 2010 AND 2012 AS A SO-
CALLED PERMA-TEMP.
THAT'S A WORKER HIRED THROUGH A
TEMP AGENCY WHO PUTS IN FULL-
TIME HOURS BUT OFTEN WITHOUT
BENEFITS AND FOR LOWER PAY THAN
FULL-TIME DIRECT EMPLOYEES OF A
COMPANY.
HOW DID YOUR COMPENSATION AND
SORT OF EXPERIENCE DIFFER FROM
THE FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES ON THE
SHOP FLOOR?
>> THE WHOLE TIME, BASICALLY, I
WAS A TEMP FOR THE FIRST TWO
YEARS.
I DIDN'T GET ANY RAISES.
I MADE $9.65.
>> Reporter: LATER, WHEN HE WAS
HIRED BY HONDA FULL-TIME, WHITE
EARNED MORE THAN $18 AN HOUR.
>> BEING A TEMP KIND OF SUCKED
BECAUSE YOU DO THE SAME OR MORE
THAN SOMEONE THAT WOULD BE
CONSIDERED FULL-TIME, BUT YOU
MAKE BASICALLY HALF WHAT THEY
DID.
>> Reporter: HARD NUMBERS ON
PERMA-TEMPS ARE HARD TO COME BY
BECAUSE THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
LABOR DOES NOT COUNT THEM AS
PART OF THE MANUFACTURING
WORKFORCE, BUT RESEARCHERS SAY A
BAD DEAL FOR PERMA-TEMPS CAN
NEGATIVELY IMPACT FULL-TIME
WORKERS.
>> THOSE DEPRESSED WAGES FOR
TEMP AGENCY WORKERS COME BACK
AND DRAG THE WAGES OF ALL
WORKERS DOWN IN THOSE
OCCUPATIONS AND IN THOSE
INDUSTRIES WHERE TEMP WORKERS
ARE USED.
>> Reporter: FLORIDA
INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY'S
GEORGE GONOS STUDIES HOW PERMA-
TEMPING RIPPLES THROUGH THE
BROADER ECONOMY.
>> FULL-TIME PERMANENT WORKERS
CAN'T STAND UP AND DEMAND HIGHER
WAGES AND BETTER CONDITIONS AND
MORE OF A VOICE WHEN THEY KNOW
THAT THEIR JOBS ARE THE NEXT TO
GO, THE NEXT TO BE CONVERTED
PERHAPS TO TEMP AGENCY WORK.
>> A JOB IS BETTER THAN NO JOB,
AND THAT'S WHY A LOT OF PEOPLE
DON'T COMPLAIN OR DON'T, YOU
KNOW, COME FORWARD AS OTHER
PEOPLE MAY SAY ABOUT THE
UNFAIRNESS OF THE JOB THEY ARE
ON.
>> Reporter: BOEING ALSO USES
PERMA-TEMPS IT CALLS
CONTRACTORS.
>> HOW WE USE OUR CONTRACT LABOR
IS REALLY BASED ON EBBS AND
FLOWS.
WHEN WE'RE IN A DEVELOPMENT SIDE
OF OUR BUSINESS, WE'LL BRING IN
MORE CONTRACT LABOR.
AND AS WE GET INTO A PRODUCTION
ENVIRONMENT, IT SLOWS DOWN.
>> WE UNDERSTAND THERE NEEDS TO
BE FLEXIBILITY BUILT IN, TOO.
WE JUST DON'T WANT TO SEE IT GET
ABUSED.
>> Reporter: HOW DOES THE
USE OF PERMA-TEMPS OR FULL-TIME
TEMPORARY WORKERS DIFFER IN
SOUTH CAROLINA, VERSUS A
UNIONIZED PLANT... BOEING PLANT
IN WASHINGTON?
>> WELL, OUR PLANT DOESN'T ALLOW
TEMPORARY WORKERS ON THE
PRODUCTION LINE.
>> Reporter: BUT SOUTH
CAROLINA OFFICIALS ARE LOATHE TO
DICTATE PERMA-TEMP TIME LIMITS
TO EMPLOYERS.
>> THERE HAS TO BE FLEXIBILITY
IN THE WORKPLACE.
THAT LACK OF FLEXIBILITY IS WHAT
HAS BEEN DESTRUCTIVE TO
MANUFACTURING IN THE UNITED
STATES IN THE PAST.
>> Reporter: AND THE NEWEST
BIG MANUFACTURER TO LAND IN THE
PALMETTO STATE, VOLVO, MAY
IMPORT SOME CHANGES.
DO YOU HAVE A POLICY ON
PERMA-TEMPS FOR HOW LONG YOU'LL
KEEP SOMEBODY AS A PERMA-TEMP
BEFORE MATRICULATING THEM TO
BECOME A FULL-TIME EMPLOYEE?
>> WE DON'T HAVE AN OFFICIAL
POLICY, AND WE NORMALLY ONLY USE
THEM TO FLUCTUATE WHEN PEOPLE
ARE ON SICK LEAVES OR VACATION,
ET CETERA.
MAYBE WE'RE TALKING 90 DAYS OR A
MAXIMUM SIX MONTHS.
>> Reporter: AND STATE
OFFICIALS ARE CONFIDENT THE
MARKET WILL DELIVER FOR WORKERS.
>> WE HAVE REMARKABLE EMPLOYERS
HERE.
WE HAVE MORE COMING.
THE EMPLOYERS ARE GOING TO HAVE
TO BE ABLE TO HOLD THOSE
WORK FORCES.
>> Reporter: A WORKFORCE WITH
LESS SECURITY THAN GENERATIONS
PAST, BUT WORKING, NONETHELESS.
>> Stewart: FOR THE FIRST TIME
IN A PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION, NINE
MORE STATES ARE ENFORCING NEW
LAWS REQUIRING ELIGIBLE VOTERS
TO PRESENT A GOVERNMENT-ISSUED
PHOTO ID AT THE POLLS.
THAT INCLUDES NEW HAMPSHIRE,
VIRGINIA, WISCONSIN AND TEXAS.
THE LAWS, WHICH HAVE BEEN
CONTROVERSIAL, WERE OSTENSIBLY
PUT IN PLACE TO THWART VOTING
IRREGULARITIES, BUT VOTER
IDENTITY ISN'T THE ONLY ISSUE IN
THE SPOTLIGHT THIS ELECTION
SEASON.
TO HELP US DELVE INTO THESE
QUESTIONS, I AM JOINED HERE IN
THE STUDIO BY WENDY WEISER.
SHE DIRECTS THE DEMOCRACY
PROGRAM AT THE BRENNAN CENTER
FOR JUSTICE AT NEW YORK
UNIVERSITY LAW SCHOOL.
LET'S TALK ABOUT NORTH CAROLINA
AND THE VOTER ID LAWS THERE.
DO PEOPLE HAVE TO SHOW PHOTO
ID?
>> ABSOLUTELY NOT.
THAT WAS STRUCK DOWN, ALONG WITH
THE REST OF THE NEW RESTRICTIVE
VOTING LAWS IN NORTH CAROLINA.
AND I DO WANT TO MAKE IT CLEAR
TO YOUR LISTENERS AND WATCHERS
THAT EVEN THOUGH THERE HAVE
BEEN NEW VOTING RESTRICTIONS PUT
IN PLACE IN STATES ACROSS THE
COUNTRY, AND EVEN THOUGH SOME OF
THEM HAVE NOT BEEN STRUCK DOWN
BY THE COURTS, PEOPLE SHOULD NOT
WORRY.
FOR MOST PEOPLE, THEY ARE NOT
GOING TO EXPERIENCE BARRIERS
VOTING.
IT IS STILL REASONABLY EASY TO
VOTE AND THEY SHOULD CHECK THEIR
VOTER REGISTRATION STATUS, MAKE
A PLAN AND GET OUT THERE AND
VOTE.
>> Stewart: LET ME TALK TO YOU
ABOUT TEXAS.
TEXAS HAD WHAT SOME CALLED A
VERY STRICT VOTER ID LAW, BUT
THE COURT SAID YOU HAVE TO MAKE
SOME ACCOMMODATIONS FOR PEOPLE
WHO DON'T HAVE A PHOTO... A
GOVERNMENT PHOTO ID HAVE THOSE
ACCOMMODATIONS BEEN MET?
IS THIS BEING HANDLE CORRECTLY?
>> YOU SHOULD NOT HAVE TO SHOW
A PHOTO ID TO VOTE IN TEXAS
RIGHT NOW IF YOU FACE SOME KIND
OF BURDEN, REASONABLE IMPEDIMENT
TO OBTAINING AN ID.
SO, UNDER THE LAW AND UNDER THE
COURT VICTORY RIGHT NOW, VOTERS
HAVE ANOTHER PROCESS THAT THEY
CAN GO THROUGH WHERE THEY SIGN
AN AFFIDAVIT EXPLAINING WHAT
THEIR DIFFICULTY IS OBTAINING
THAT ID, AND THEY SHOULD JUST
BE ABLE TO CAST A REGULAR BALLOT
THAT WILL COUNT JUST LIKE
EVERYBODY ELSE.
>> Stewart: EVEN IF SOMEBODY
TELLS YOU SOMETHING ELSE OR IF
YOU SEE AN OUTDATED POSTER.
>> YES.
EARLY VOTING NOW HAS STARTED IN
TEXAS AS WELL LAST WEEK, AND
THERE WERE MORE THAN A DOZEN
COUNTIES WHERE THERE WAS
INCORRECT SIGNAGE, INCORRECTLY
TELLING PEOPLE THAT THEY MUST
SHOW A PHOTO ID TO VOTE.
THERE WERE PLACES LIKE IN HARRIS
COUNTY, TEXAS, WHERE THERE WERE
ELECTION OFFICIALS WALKING UP
AND DOWN THE LINE TELLING PEOPLE
THAT THEY NEED A PHOTO ID TO
VOTE, AND IN NONE OF THESE CASES
DID THEY TELL PEOPLE ABOUT THE
OTHER PROCESS THAT'S AVAILABLE
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THESE IDs.
>> Stewart: LET'S TALK ABOUT
THE PHYSICAL ACT OF VOTING.
I KNOW THE BRENNAN CENTER HAS
BEEN TALKING ABOUT INVESTIGATING
THE ACTUAL PHYSICAL MACHINES
WHICH IN MANY STATES ARE A
DECADE OLD.
>> ONE PROBLEM THAT WE ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT THIS YEAR AND
REALLY GOING FORWARD IS THAT IN
42 STATES WE FOUND, STATES ARE
USING MACHINES THAT ARE TEN OR
MORE YEARS OLD, AND THAT IS
CLOSE TO OR PASSED THE PROJECTED
LIFE SPAN OF THOSE MACHINES.
AND WHAT WE EXPECT TO SEE-- AND
I THINK WE'RE ALREADY SEEING--
ARE BREAKDOWNS, MALFUNCTIONS
LIKE VOTE FLIPPING WHERE YOU
TRY TO PRESS A VOTE FOR ONE
CANDIDATE AND IT APPEARS FOR
ANOTHER CANDIDATE.
YOU KNOW, WE HOPE THAT NOW AND
HAVING ENCOURAGED ELECTION
OFFICIALS TO BE PREPARED, SO
THAT IF THERE ARE THESE KINDS OF
PROBLEMS, THE MACHINES CAN BE
IMMEDIATELY DECOMMISSIONED,
REPLACED WITH OTHER MACHINES.
THERE ARE BACKUP PAPER BALLOTS
OR OTHER PROCESSES IN PLACE.
BUT THIS IS A BIG PROBLEM THAT
WE'RE CONCERNED ABOUT AND
SOMETHING THAT WE REALLY DO NEED
TO ADDRESS RIGHT AFTER ELECTION
DAY.
>> Stewart: QUICK QUESTION--
IS HACKING AN ISSUE?
HACKING OF A VOTING MACHINE?
>> ABSOLUTELY NOT.
THIS IS NOT SOMETHING THAT
PEOPLE NEED TO BE CONCERNED
ABOUT.
THERE WERE REPORTS OF HACKERS
ACTUALLY OBTAINING ACCESS TO
VOTER REGISTRATION DATABASES IN
20 STATES EARLIER, AND THAT'S
MADE PEOPLE REALLY WORRIED.
BUT WE ARE ABLE TO DETECT THOSE.
THERE WAS NO TAMPERING.
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY, VOTER
REGISTRATION DATABASES ARE
CONNECTED TO THE INTERNET.
VOTING MACHINES SHOULD NEVER BE,
WHICH MEANS THAT NO ONE SITTING
IN A BASEMENT IN MOSCOW OR
ANYONE ELSE SHOULD BE ABLE TO
ACCESS YOUR VOTING MACHINE.
SO, THIS IS NOT SOMETHING THAT
SECURITY EXPERTS THINK IS A
CREDIBLE THREAT TO OUR ELECTION
INTEGRITY RIGHT NOW.
>> Stewart: WENDY WEISER,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> Stewart: WOMEN MAKE UP ABOUT
A QUARTER OF ALL STATE
LEGISLATIVE SEATS IN THE UNITED
STATES.
SEE HOW YOUR STATE RANKS BY
USING OUR INTERACTIVE MAP AT
www.pbs.org/newshour.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Stewart: A MEMBER OF THE JURY
THAT ACQUITTED SEVEN PEOPLE WHO
OCCUPIED A FEDERAL WILDLIFE
SANCTUARY IN RURAL OREGON IN
JANUARY SAYS THE VERDICT THIS
WEEK WAS NOT AN ENDORSEMENT OF
THE DEFENDANTS' ACTIONS.
IN AN E-MAIL TO "THE OREGONIAN"
NEWSPAPER, JUROR NUMBER FOUR
SAID THE VERDICT WAS A REJECTION
OF THE GOVERNMENT'S CASE:
THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION
SAFETY BOARD IS INVESTIGATING
TWO SEPARATE INCIDENTS OF PLANES
CATCHING FIRE YESTERDAY.
AT CHICAGO'S O'HARE AIRPORT, AN
AMERICAN AIRLINES PASSENGER JET
BOUND FOR MIAMI EXPERIENCED AN
ENGINE FAILURE THAT CAUSED THE
PLANE TO CATCH ON FIRE.
THE PILOTS ABORTED THE TAKEOFF
AND EVACUATED ALL 170 PASSENGERS
AND CREW ON BOARD.
IN FLORIDA, A FEDEX CARGO JET
CAUGHT FIRE AFTER LANDING IN
FORT LAUDERDALE LAST NIGHT.
PILOTS BELIEVE THE LANDING GEAR
COLLAPSED ON THE RUNWAY.
NO ONE WAS HURT.
IRAQI TROOPS AND THEIR ALLIES
ADVANCED CLOSER TO MOSUL TODAY
FROM TWO DIRECTIONS IN A
MILITARY OFFENSIVE TO OUST ISIS
FROM IRAQ'S SECOND BIGGEST CITY.
IRAQI OFFICIALS SAY TROOPS MOVED
INTO THE TOWN OF SHURA, SOUTH OF
MOSUL, FOLLOWING U.S.-LED
AIR STRIKES AGAINST ISIS
POSITIONS INSIDE THE TOWN.
MOST ISIS FIGHTERS HAD ESCAPED
USING CIVILIANS AS HUMAN
SHIELDS.
HUNDREDS OF FAMILIES HAVE FLED
TOWNS SURROUNDING MOSUL, TAKING
SHELTER IN A NEWLY ESTABLISHED
REFUGEE CAMP.
TO THE WEST OF MOSUL, ANTI-ISIS
MILITIA FORCES SAY THEY
RECAPTURED TEN VILLAGES TODAY
AND ARE NOW HEADING SOUTH TO TAL
AFAR TO CUT OFF A POTENTIAL LINE
OF ESCAPE BY ISIS MILITANTS INTO
SYRIA.
ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND SUNDAY,
HOW WILL MILLENNIALS IMPACT THE
ELECTION IN A KEY SWING STATE?
>> WILL THEY TURN OUT?
WILL THEY LEAN AS HEAVILY
DEMOCRAT AS THEY HAVE IN THE
LAST TWO ELECTIONS, WHERE
PRESIDENT OBAMA WAS A CANDIDATE?
>> Stewart: RETURNING TO THE
2016 CAMPAIGN, AT A RALLY LATE
THIS AFTERNOON IN FLORIDA,
HILLARY CLINTON SAID IT'S
"STRANGE THAT F.B.I. DIRECTOR
JIM COMEY INFORMED CONGRESS
YESTERDAY, 11 DAYS BEFORE
ELECTION DAY, THAT HE PLANS TO
REVIEW NEWLY DISCOVERED
E-MAILS."
>> IN FACT, IT'S NOT JUST
STRANGE.
IT'S UNPRECEDENTED, AND IT IS
DEEPLY TROUBLING BECAUSE VOTERS
DESERVE TO GET FULL AND COMPLETE
FACTS.
>> Stewart: AND FINALLY, THE
STATE DEPARTMENT TONIGHT ORDERED
FAMILIES OF ALL PERSONNEL AT THE
U.S. CONSULATE IN TURKEY'S
LARGEST CITY, ISTANBUL, TO LEAVE
THE COUNTRY, CITING AGGRESSIVE
EFFORTS BY EXTREMIST GROUPS TO
ATTACK AMERICANS.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M ALISON STEWART.
GOOD NIGHT.